Title: 180A Lab
Date: 2016-02-08 11:21
Slug: 180A
Authors: Liwen Wen
Status: draft

[TOC]

# Experiment I. Cosmic rays

  * Sometime the two coincidence counts are even lower than three coincidence counts when the high voltage is going up. The reason is one of the square wave generated by the coincidence is too wide from two coincidence so that it may submerge other signals which may finally decrease the counts.  


# Experiment II. Half life measurement

  * The board is not working due to the controller failure(VM0018). 

# Experiment III. Beta decay spectrum

  * How to pump the air: close the vent connected to the solenoid chamber; open the valve to the pump; turn on the mechanical pump.

  * How to close the pump: close the vent connected to the pump first; open the vent to the air; wait until the air fills the chamber; 
turn off the pump.

  * Apply high volts to the Geiger Counter.

  * Turn on the fan when you turn on the shunt voltage.

  * Run for like 2 mins so that the counts can be at least approximately equal to last year's data.
 
# Log

  * 2016-02-08: File the return form, the return number(Product-Return-Number, PRN) is W7389, received email.

  * 2016-02-10: We can download the form from Ernie's email, and fill out the monique's email and Joey's signature and Huang's account.

  * 2016-02-17: 

     1. I tried to upgrade the firmware in C2/P2 FPGA to the latest version but failed;

     2. The old Dell laptop can be connected through the serial port of the MCA(multichannel analyzer); you can tune the port(COM) and sample rate in the `View->preference` and select the MCA tab;

     3. George's old samsung laptop can be used through usb connector, you have to download the recentest software and install the Prolific usb driver which is included in the software package. And then find out the COM number in `Task Manager` and change the settings in the `admca`(software's name) preference. But, the data acquisition is very very very slow(software usually gets frozen), never succeeded obtaining a full spectrum.

     4. Asked Andreas from Wiener to send us a spare VM-USB controller for testing. The PK3B-180A(shipping funding account for department use) is obtained from Leticia and PK21(444025-HU-22446-03) is the account number for our group's research use(DOE).

   * 2016-02-18: Andreas sent out the module and the tracking number is 775681057419.

   * 2016-02-19: 
      
      1. Today is a day worth celebration. New module arrives and works like a charm.

      2. In the morning, I opened the package and install it(by pushing it very hard into the crate, using the handles) to the horizontal crate, then installed the TDC V.775(obtained from Huang) in the crate also. Using the XXUSBWin software(latest version as of today) to access itself's registers(by checking the self in the third tab("stack commands??"), and inputting the registers address on the controller board, A32 is 4 bytes(8 digits of hexadecimal number) addressing mode, the AM mode is not abllowed to set manually(they are corresponding to some special modes of data acquisition, check the manul for detailed description)). By accessing the 803A register of TDC V.775 or QDC V.965, you are supposed to get result 3. But you have click the 2,3 bytes to read the data in the software(If you observe carefully, the module's addrress goes up by like 4 for each register which corresponds to 4bytes = 32 bits, but the 803A register has only 16 bits of data, which are siting in the final two bytes, so you have to use 2,3).  

     3. Big endian vs. little endian: big endian is the most significant digit is in the lowest address, and the little endian is the opposite. 

     4. I upgraded the C3/P3 firmware on the new module VM0050.

     5. In the afternoon when I tested the new module with Jed with the real data input, one thing intersting happens, when the input number is only one for like coincidence then the OR logic is not working at all. If we set the FIFO option to 13k, it will stops acquisition after like 30s for Na22 source put close enough to Abel.

     6. So the address is `EE110000` for V.965 and you also have to change it in the command stack window on the graphic interface. (In summary, you have to change three items including the `FIFO options`, to 4k)

     7. For calibration, run 300s for each combination of detector and source. 

     8. No need to use logic unit in calibration, but you can use it in the final bg data-taking.
   
     9. No Barium source found in the cabinet. 

     10. How to debug the `DRDY` and `BUSY` lights both on symptoms? Change FIFO(deep reason not known yet).

     11. The code version of V965 is not working(cannot generate txt file).  

     12. The gate should go to both gate on V.965 and VM-USB I1.   

     13. Send out the documentation of the data structure.  and office hour / TODO!!!!!

     14. Green high volts are the proper set of high volts. 
